••• Linux - culture - D-Bus
In computing, D-Bus is a Message-oriented middleware mechanism that allows
communication between multiple processes running concurrently on the same
machine. D-Bus was developed as part of the freedesktop.org project, initiated
by Havoc Pennington from Red Hat to standardize services provided by Linux
desktop environments such as GNOME and KDE

••• Linux - culture - Dconf
Dconf is a tool to collect a system's hardware and software configuration. It
allows to take your system configuration with you on the road, compare
identical systems (like nodes in a cluster) to troubleshoot HW or SW problems.
Dconf is also useful in projects where you have to manage changes as a team.


••• Linux - culture - tr
tr is a command-line utility in Linux and Unix systems  that translates, deletes, 
and squeezes characters from the standard  input and writes the result to the 
standard output.
The tr command can perform operations like removing repeated characters, 
converting uppercase to lowercase, and basic character replacing and  removing. 
Typically, it is used in combination with other commands  through piping.

••• Linux - culture - Inter-process communication 
In computer science, inter-process communication or interprocess communication 
(IPC) refers specifically to the mechanisms an operating system provides to 
allow the processes to manage shared data. Typically, applications can use IPC, 
categorized as clients and servers, where the client requests data and the server 
responds to client requests.[1] Many applications are both clients and servers, 
as commonly seen in distributed computing.

••• Linux - culture - Process
A process is the operating system's abstraction of a running program.

••• Linux - culture - Hashable
Being hashable means that your objects must have a value that never changes
during their lifetime. This is a requirement because these objects will work
as dictionary keys. In Python, immutable objects are also hashable.

••• Linux - culture - Monkey patching
In Python the term monkey patch refers to dynamic (or runtime) modifications
of a class or module. We can change the behaviour of code at run time.

class Mainclass:

    def func(self):
        print("func() is being called")

def monkey_f(self):
    print("monkey_f() is being called")


if __name__ == "__main__":

    Mainclass.func = monkey_f
    obj = Mainclass()
    obj.func()

••• Linux - culture - Termcap

It is a file that lists all the capabilities of a particular terminal, along
with the escape sequences needed to achieve a particular effect. In the later
years, this was replaced by terminfo. Without delving too much into details,
this mechanism allows application programs to query the terminfo database and
obtain the control characters to be sent to a terminal or terminal emulator.

••• Linux - culture - Curses (C ncurses library)
Curses is a pun on the name "cursor optimization". The Curses library forms a
wrapper over working with raw terminal codes, and provides highly flexible and
efficient API (Application Programming Interface). It provides functions to move
the cursor, create windows, produce colors, play with mouse etc. The application
programs need not worry about the underlying terminal capabilities.

••• Functional programming - Pure functions
A pure function is one where:
- The output depends solely on the input.
- There are no side effects, such as modifying global variables or interacting
with I/O.

••• Functional programming - Immutability
Functional programming emphasizes immutability, where data structures are not
modified after they are created. 

••• Functional programming - Closures 
Closures are functions that capture the surrounding context where they are
defined. 

••• Functional programming - Lazy evaluation
Lazy evaluation delays the computation of a value until it is actually needed.

••• Functional programming - Currying
Currying is a technique for converting a function that takes multiple arguments
into a sequence of functions that each take a single argument.
